---
layout: post
title: "Dadding, s2e4: An update on the baby"
tags:
  - dadding
  - weeknotes
---

I haven't written these every week but I'm going to try to get back
into the habit.  There's lots happening that I could talk about: the
ongoing coronavirus crisis, coping with Luke (our 3-year-old), making
hard decisions about whether and when to go back to work; but for this
post I thought I'd focus on baby Robin.

Robin is, by and large, a good-natured baby who doesn't cry very much.
As a result, he often gets left on his own in the corner of the room
to lie there and watch the world go by, while we struggle with
domestic chores, or getting Luke to sit on the potty.  During the
first month or so, he also wasn't very interactive: he would wake for
feeds and nappy changes and sleep most of the rest of the time, and
his immature eyes weren't capable of seeing very much.

That has started changing recently.  He's started smiling, which is
was a real milestone for us.  The feeling when a baby smiles at you
with a huge, gummy grin is something close to euphoria: maybe much of
the rest of our life is pretty substandard right now but those smiles
go a long way towards making up for it.

Robin is also spending quite a bit more time awake and just watching
and listening.  He'll sit in his bouncy chair and watch you eat your
lunch or dinner with a wide-eyed look of wonder.  Or you'll put him in
the pram, where previously he would fall asleep as soon as you started
pushing him along, and instead find he's looking you straight in the
eye with the slightly uncanny stare of a baby as you're walking along
(babies blink about 5â€“10 times less often than adults).

He's started making more noises than just crying, too: the little
coos, burbles and even prototypical giggles are a joy to hear.  Sonia
sometimes describes them as "practising his vowel sounds".

His muscles are getting stronger: we can see him getting better able
to hold up his head, and we give him semi-regular "tummy time" where
he lies on his front and exercises muscles in his arms, legs and neck
trying to have a look around.

Most recently, we took him for his 8-week injections and checkup.
This was the first time he was measured since birth, and we had it
confirmed that he is enormous!  We knew this already, of course, but
we looked his measurements up on the charts afterward and he's above
98th centile for both weight and length.

He's still much less interactive than Luke, and he can't get up to
nearly so much mischief, so it's easy to find our focus so frequently
drawn away from Robin.  I'm writing this post while sitting at the top
of the stairs just outside Luke's door, trying to bring him some
comfort because although it's past his bedtime, he's not very sleepy.
This is just one of the many ways Luke steals our attention away.

But it's been nice to make some time to reflect on our youngest family
member and to think about all the progress he's making.
